1. On October 22, 1899, Hans Kamper placed an advertisement in a local newspaper claiming his wish to form a football club; a few positive 
answers led to a meeting at the Gimnasio Solé on November 29th. Eleven players attended, led by Joan Gamper. FC Barcelona was created.

2. Supporters of FC Barcelona are called “culés”, coming from the word for bum in Catalan. According to legend, from outside the old Les Corts stadium, all that could be seen of the spectators in the stands was their backsides!

3. Barcelona´s Camp Nou was once the same size as the Maracanã Stadium in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil and the largest stadium in the world with capacity for 120, 000 spectators. It has since been reduced in size for security reasons. 

4. The first official match took place in the Camp Nou on the 6th October 1957 against Real Jaén. The result was a win for FC Barcelona with 6 goals to 1. 

5. The large roof of the Camp Nou slows down the growth of the gras son the field and has to be regularly changed.

6. The motto of the club, “Mes que un Club” was a symbol of Catalan nationalism especially during Franco´s dictatorship.

7. Under Franquismo, the Catalan language and symbols were banned. In 1939, the football team was also forced to change their name to Club de Football Barcelona. The Catalan flag was removed form the shield of the club. Yet, at this time, the Stadium remained one of the rare places where Catalan could be spoken and Catalan flag could be shown freely.

8. It was only in 1974 when the club changed its name back to Futbol Club Barcelona.

9. The President of the FC Barcelona, Joan Laporta, a self-proclaimed nationalist, requires all foreign players to learn Catalan. Yet, some famous players are not required to speak it such as Lionel “Leo” Messi, who spoke Catalan once, when he was drunk after a FC Barcelona win, and through a megaphone.

10. In 2007, Laporta dedicated some tickets for the FC Barcelona vs. Real Madrid game to Federació Lull, an organization which promotes the spread of the Catalan language.

11. On July 14th, 2006 the club signed an agreement with Unicef that included the organization´s logo for the first time in the club history. The FC Barcelona donated €1.5 million each year to the organization as part of the 5-years agreement.

12. FC Barcelona is the football club with the most Ballon d´or winners in the world –a prize granted to the best football player of the year, worldwide- with 10 cups.
In 1992, the Camp Nou hosted the Olympic games and La Roja, the Spain national football team, defeated Poland 3-2.

13. We usually forget about it but FC Barcelona is not the only football club of the Catalan capital city. RCD Espanyol was founded by Spanish football fans and is against FC Barcelona, arguing that the team is full of foreigners. For long, the RCD Espanyol has been a rival of FC Barcelona; during the Franco´s dictatorship, the club cultivated the compliance to the central authority while FC Barcelona had a revolutionary spirit.

14. The two most successful Spanish football teams, FC Barcelona and Real Madrid are fierce competitors. The rivalry is said to come from Franco’s dictatorship. FC Barcelona represented an opposition to Franquismo while Real Madrid was a symbol of nationalism and was supported by the regime and the dictator itself. Yet, another explanation for such competition is that those two cities are the largest and richest in Spain. Both clubs are also the most prolific.

15. With Franco in attendance, the club defeated Real Madrid 1-0 at the Copa del Generalismo final in 1968. The club’s coach at the time, Salvador Artigas, was a Republican pilot during the Spanish Civil War.

16. There have been 227 official confrontations between the two teams since the first Clasico on May 13th, 1902 (apart from friendly matches). Real Madrid won more matches; 91 wins for Real Madrid, 88 for FC Barcelona and 48 draws. Moreover, there have been 752 goals scored during Clasicos so far with an average of 3.3 goals per game. Yet, Real Madrid FC scored more than FC Barcelona, 384 goals vs. 368 for the Catalan club.

17. This is a 3D show at the beginning of the Camp Nou stadium tour, which objective is to transmit the feeling of being on the football field thanks to real match images shown in 3D.