Ryan Giggs almost signed for Man City. United grabbed from under their noses.

Since the inception of the Premier League, Manchester United have accumulated 1503 points from wins - winning 86 more games than nearest rivals Arsenal.

The famous five of Manchester United's youth academy - Ryan Giggs, Paul Scholes, David Beckham, Gary Neville and Nicky Butt - appeared 3038 times in total for the Red Devils.

Last season alone, Manchester United had 20 players out on loan.

Sir Matt Busby only bought 16 players in his 13 years in charge of United before Munich. 4 of them were Goal Keepers. He didn't buy anyone in the period between 1953-57.

Manchester United FC's very existance was once saved by a wondering dog.

Our first game at Old Trafford was against Liverpool in 1910. Sadly, they won that day. United's first European game at Old Trafford was against Anderlecht, we won 10-0. 

Manchester City allowed United to play their first-team games at Maine Road following bomb damage to Old Trafford during the second world war.

Bobby Charlton still holds the record as highest Manchester United goalscorer, with 249 goals in all competitions.

Despite his natural goalscoring talent and legendary status at the club, Charlton is quoted as saying that Duncan Edwards is the "only player that made me feel inferior"

Sir Matt Busby played his entire professional career for United's two greatest modern day rivals, Liverpool and Manchester City.

The last time United played outside the top flight of English league football, was in the '75/76 season under Tommy Docherty. He was sacked the following season.
Under Sir Alex Ferguson, we never finished lower than 3rd in the Premier league.

 The 1999 Treble winning season made United the second British team to achieve the feat (after Celtic in 1967) as well as the first (and so far, only) English team to win it, and one of only 7 European clubs thus far.

The shortest runout any of our players have had in one match was Chris Smalling - who played 12 seconds vs Norwich in 2012.

Ryan Giggs holds the record for most United appearances. He has played more English Premier League games than Manchester City.

Giggs also holds the record for fastest goal scored by United, netting after 15 seconds vs Southampton in 1995.

Dimitar Berbatov remains our record signing, costing £30.75 million in 2008, Rio Ferdinand a close second at £29.1 million.

 The most we've received for a departing player is £80 million for Cristiano Ronaldo, with David Beckham second a relative bargain at £25 million.

Wayne Rooney is the highest scoring Englishman in Champions League history, a record once held by Paul Scholes.

United's top ten all-time scorers are British.

Manchester United are top of the all-time Premier League table, some 250 points clear of Arsenal.

We've never had a non-British manager.

Under the management of Sir Matt Busby, Manchester United took the intimidating nickname, the ‘Red Devils’, from Salford Rugby Club, who toured France under the same name whilst also wearing red shirts.

The longest period without an Irish man in the first team is 6 months.