1)Valencia CF are the flagship club for the Valencia region and were formed in March 1919 (a good year for founding football clubs!). Their nickname is Los Ches - which means 'the Mates'.

2) They have played at their current stadium since 1923: the Estadio Mestalla is the sixth largest stadium in Spain with a capacity of 55,000. Before each game the club run out to their anthem 'Pasodoble', which is sung in the Valencian dialect.

3) Valencia should have moved to the Estadio Nuovo Mestalla (New Mestalla) in the last two years however the global recession caused the joint financing agreement with the Valencia Regional Government and local construction firms to collapse.

4) This has led to Valencia still playing in a stadium they originally agreed to sell off and owning a half built stadium they can not afford to complete. The club employ four people to occupy their half-built new stadium in order to show there is 'work' in progression, even though they can't carry out an serious construction work. Instead they watch television. By law the stadium can be taken off them if it is proved no substantial work has been undertaken on the Nuovo Mestalla.

5) Inevitably stadium problems mean that Valencia have racked up over £500 million in debt which they are still trying to service. Despite selling Spanish World Cup winning stars David Villa (Barcelona); David Silva (Manchester City), Juan Mata (Chelsea) and Carlos Marchena (Villarreal), Los Ches have failed to substantially cut the debts they own.

6) Current captain David Albelda was effectively sacked in 2007-08 season by then coach Ronald Koeman for an alleged breach of club discipline. However the club removed Koeman and reinstated Albelda in the same season, who helped Los Ches avoid relegation from the Primera Liga.

7) Valencia have only spent four years outside of the top flight during their 92 history. Most recently they spent a year in the second division in the 1986-87 season.

8) The club are the third most successful in Spain (no prizes for guessing which two clubs are above them), with six La Liga titles and seven Spanish Copa del Rey victories. Their most recent league title came under the guidance of Rafael Benitez (remember him?) in 2004, the same year they won the UEFA Cup.

9) Valencia also won the Inter Cities Fairs Cup in 1962 and 1963 and have also won the defunct European Cup Winners' Cup in 1980, defeating Arsenal in the final on penalties after a 0-0 draw. They are most famous for reaching the Champions League final in successive seasons at the turn of the millennium under Argentinean coach Hector Cuper. In 2000 they lost 3-0 to Real Madrid in Paris, whilst in 2001 a side including ex-Stoke loanee John Carew lost to Bayern Munich on penalties in Milan following a 1-1 draw. On their way to the 2001 final they beat Leeds United in the Semi-Final.

10) Famous former players for Valencia include Gaizka Mendieta, Kike, goalkeepers Santiago Canizares and Andoni Zubizaretta, Dutchmen Faas Wilkes and Johnny Rep, Brazilian striker Romario and Argentinians Ariel Ortega and Mario Kempes. In their current squad keep an eye out for Ever Banega, goal machine Roberto Soldado, Jordi Alba and Mehmet Topal.

11) Notable coaches for Los Ches include the legendary Alfredo Di Stefano (who coached them to the title in 1971), Kurt Jara, Hector Cuper and Rafael Benitez. Present incumbent Unai Emery guided Valencia to two third place finishes in the last two seasons despite the club selling their star player each year to pay off some of their debts.